## Style

Cultivating your personal style is the most important
and rewarding part of being a programmer. Your style is reflected in
the code you write when you are most free of constraints; when you are
able to make decisions without consulting anyone else; when you are 
engaged and motivated by your own standards. Your style is what you 
retain when your repos are all deleted and your code is all hidden 
behind NDAs. Your style is your ability to do it better, more easily
next time.

It can be hard to achieve the freedom necessary to work in your own
style. In collaborative projects, strong personal styles can result in
inconsistent code, so there is a tendency to view them with suspicion.
Make your style instructive, demonstrating a way of producing high-
quality software that others can understand and emulate, without 
demanding their allegiance. When you encounter resistance, explore it 
carefully, like an archaeologist unearthing an artifact. You have an
opportunity to learn something valuable, but haste and force will 
destroy it.

Your style arises naturally out of your knowledge and experience; 
it is the best, fastest, most reliable way to write programs that you
know. Your style should change as your perception and attention change:
where you might have implemented a clever hack a month ago to finish a
week's work in a day, now you might spend a day on an hour's worth of
work, so that there is a clear, documented pattern for later developers
to follow.

Your vision is related to your style, and helps define it. The way
you perform a task depends on how you see it in context. Are you
primarily writing a function, or are you adding a feature? Are you
adding a feature, or are you setting an example and building knowledge
on your team? Are you helping build a strong team, or are you trying
to have a particular effect on the world? Each way of seeing the work
carries with it a value set. To write code is to create a golem, an
automaton embodying your perception of this moment, that will continue
to represent that perception long after you've moved on.

There is no right style. There is no correct vision. While you hone
some tools, others will rust. While you focus on team building, your
coding will suffer. While you focus on coding, your understanding of
the market will suffer. While you focus on everything, your health and
relationships will suffer. Practice self-awareness. Understand where
your focus lies, and be conservative when offering contributions and
feedback.

Use your weaknesses as opportunities to trust and value others.
Your ability to effectively work in a team begins with your capacity
to genuinely trust and appreciate your teammates. The more awareness
you have of your own weaknesses, the more opportunities you have to
empower others. The more you resist the urge to offer half-thought-out
opinions, the more weight your words will carry. Before offering any
feedback, ensure that it is important enough to justify the work
required to address it. Consider it a victory when you are able to
make room for someone else's creativity and personal style to develop
alongside your own.
